README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://trimtube.vercel.app/">
    <img alt="TrimTube" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube/main/public/logo.png" width="200" />
  </a>
</p>
<h1 align="center">
  TrimTube
</h1>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube/blob/main/LICENSE" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">
<img alt="GitHub" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/iamsainikhil/nextjs-prismic-blog-starter?style=flat-square">
</a>
<a href="http://commitizen.github.io/cz-cli/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">
<img alt="Commitizen friendly" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/commitizen-friendly-brightgreen.svg">
</a>
</p>

TrimTube is a web application which allows user to fetch video or a playlist using a YouTube video or playlist link. This app also features a media player that allows the user to trim and loop any portion of a YouTube video with ability to save the video(s) to a playlist(s).

# 👀 **Demo**

[https://trimtube.vercel.app/](https://trimtube.vercel.app/)

# 🎉 **Features**

TrimTube provides multiple features like:

- **Search**: Search for a YouTube video or playlist by pasting the entire youtube video or playlist link or just the ID.
- **Video**: Trim and loop a YouTube video with ability to share the URL as well as adding to playlist(s).
- **Playlist**: View videos added to a playlist all at one place. Ability to save, share, and delete a playlist. Option to individually remove a video from the playlist.
- **Sync**: Ability to sync a playlist with that of the YouTube playlist if the playlist was created locally in the app using the Search with playlist feature.
- **Sort**: Sort a playlist created in the app based on the `title` or `publishedDate` of the videos.
- **Repeat**: Repeat a single video or the entire playlist or just play through all the videos in the playlist once.

# 🗍 **Pages**

## Search

- Search with pasted `YouTube Video Link` to find the relevant YouTube videos.

![YouTube Video Link](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube/main/README/Search_Paste_YouTube_Link_Demo.gif)

<a href="https://fluvid.com/videos/detail/PgDo-uRn7Bsgj9XMx" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">Watch video</a><br/>

- Search with pasted `YouTube Video ID` to find the relevant YouTube videos.

![YouTube Video ID](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube/main/README/Search%20_YouTube_Video_ID_Demo.gif)

<a href="https://fluvid.com/videos/detail/ZOmq-ID1wGI9PYq6k" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">Watch video</a><br/>

## Video

- Watch the video in a YouTube media player with the ability to `trim` the video, `share` the URL, and `save` to playlist(s).

![Video page](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube/main/README/Video_Demo.gif)

<a href="https://fluvid.com/videos/detail/wz_2XCokyjcn2YLG5" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">Watch video</a><br/>

## Playlists

- After adding the videos (trimmed or original) to playlist(s). You can see all the playlists at once in a single dashboard.

> Playlists are saved in user's browser localStorage

![Playlists page](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube/main/README/Playlists_Demo.gif)

<a href="https://fluvid.com/videos/detail/R68rdCaV2DFMAy3MR" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">Watch video</a><br/>

## Playlist

- Watch all the videos added to a local playlist or from a shared playlist.

> Shared playlists can also be saved locally. Moreover, user will be given the option to merge the videos if there is a playlist that exist locally with the same name of a shared playlist.

![Playlist page](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube/main/README/Playlist_Demo.gif)

<a href="https://fluvid.com/videos/detail/y7X9zT37A_UYKgrAD" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">Watch video</a><br/>

## Themes

- TrimTube offers user the option to switch between `light` and `dark` theme. By default, theme is set using the user's system preferences.

![Themes Demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube/main/README/Themes_Demo.gif)

<a href="https://fluvid.com/videos/detail/7x8vGhXOKYidj71nE" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">Watch video</a><br/>

# 💻 Quick start

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube.git
   ```

2. **Install the packages**

   Install the packages using the command `npm install`

3. **Environment File**

   Create an `.env` file in the root directory of the project. Add the following properties in it:

   ```sh
   YOUTUBE_API_V3=<your YouTube API key> (Required)

   NEXT_PUBLIC_GA_ID=<your Google Analytics tracking ID> (Optional)

   NEXT_PUBLIC_SITE_URL=<URL of the deployed app> (Optional)

   NEXT_PUBLIC_HOTJAR_ID=<your project Hotjar tracking ID> (Optional)

   NEXT_PUBLIC_HOTJAR_VERSION=<your project Hotjar tracking code version> (Optional)
   ```

4. **Start developing.**

   Navigate into your new site’s directory and start it up.

   ```sh
   # Go to project directory
   cd <project-name>

   # start the application
   npm run dev
   ```

5. **Open the source code and start editing!**

   Your site is now running at `http://localhost:3000`!

   Open the `<project-name>` directory in your code editor of choice and edit the contents. Save your changes and the browser will update in real time!

# ⚙️ Available Scripts

---

In the project directory, you can run:

- `npm run dev`

  Runs the app in the development mode.Open `[http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/)` to view it in the browser. The page will reload if you make edits. You will also see any lint or nextjs develop errors in the console.

- `npm run start`

  Runs the app in the production mode.Open `[http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/)` to view it in the browser. The page will reload if you make edits. You will also see any lint or nextjs develop errors in the console.

- `npm run build`

  Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

  The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes. Your app is ready to be deployed!

  See the section about **[deployment](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment)** for more information.

- `npm format`

  Formats the app files like _js, jsx, json, and md_ using Prettier. You can learn more about the format **[here](https://prettier.io/docs/en/install.html)**.

> Note: `pwa-asset-generator` tool is used to generate the below PWA assets. You can learn more about this tool **[here](https://github.com/onderceylan/pwa-asset-generator#features)**.

- `npx pwa-asset-generator ./public/logo.png ./public --icon-only --favicon --opaque false --maskable false --type png`

  Generates favicons and place them in the `public` directory.

- `npx pwa-asset-generator ./public/logo.png ./public/light --splash-only --background lightgray --type jpeg --quality 80`

  Generates splash images needed for apple devices with a light background and place them in the `public/light` directory.

- `npx pwa-asset-generator ./public/logo.png ./public/dark --splash-only --background 'rgba(51,51,51, 1)' --type jpeg --quality 80`

  Generates splash images needed for apple devices with a dark background and place them in the `public/dark` directory.

# **🙌 Contribution**

- Open pull request with improvements.
- If you have any new idea, check the **[feature request](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube/main/blob/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md)** template to create a request.
- If you found any issue or a bug, check the **[bug report](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube/main/blob/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md)** template to create a report.

# **📃 License**

Have a look at the **[license file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube/main/raw/master/README_images/LICENSE)** for details

# **📧 Contact**

Whether you’d like to discuss about this starter template or simply say “hello”, I’d love to hear from you.

Email: **[contact@iamsainikhil.com](mailto:contact@iamsainikhil.com)**

Commit message:

doc(README): add videos in the Features section

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://trimtube.vercel.app/">
    <img alt="TrimTube" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube/main/public/logo.png" width="200" />
  </a>
</p>
<h1 align="center">
  TrimTube
</h1>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube/blob/main/LICENSE" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">
<img alt="GitHub" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/iamsainikhil/nextjs-prismic-blog-starter?style=flat-square">
</a>
<a href="http://commitizen.github.io/cz-cli/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">
<img alt="Commitizen friendly" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/commitizen-friendly-brightgreen.svg">
</a>
</p>

TrimTube is a web application which allows user to fetch video or a playlist using a YouTube video or playlist link. This app also features a media player that allows the user to trim and loop any portion of a YouTube video with ability to save the video(s) to a playlist(s).

# 👀 **Demo**

[https://trimtube.vercel.app/](https://trimtube.vercel.app/)

# 🎉 **Features**

TrimTube provides multiple features like:

- **Search**: Search for a YouTube video or playlist by pasting the entire youtube video or playlist link or just the ID.
- **Video**: Trim and loop a YouTube video with ability to share the URL as well as adding to playlist(s).
- **Playlist**: View videos added to a playlist all at one place. Ability to save, share, and delete a playlist. Option to individually remove a video from the playlist.
- **Sync**: Ability to sync a playlist with that of the YouTube playlist if the playlist was created locally in the app using the Search with playlist feature.
- **Sort**: Sort a playlist created in the app based on the `title` or `publishedDate` of the videos.
- **Repeat**: Repeat a single video or the entire playlist or just play through all the videos in the playlist once.

# 🗍 **Pages**

## Search

- Search with pasted `YouTube Video Link` or a `YouTube Video ID` to find the relevant YouTube video(s).

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/21148072/153730123-2af678a8-75ca-4b42-b577-ea8f8c06d519.mp4

- Search with pasted `YouTube Playlist Link` or a `YouTube Playlist ID` to find the relevant YouTube video(s).

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/21148072/153730146-a8d4e699-278e-4221-af08-f69242d73564.mp4

## Video

- Watch the video in a YouTube media player with the ability to `trim` the video, `share` the URL, and `save` to playlist(s).

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/21148072/153730168-520fa6ba-c91e-475b-8ff2-0f3925570e57.mp4


## Playlists

- After adding the videos (trimmed or original) to playlist(s). You can see all the playlists at once in a single dashboard.

> Playlists are saved in user's browser localStorage

![Playlists page](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube/main/README/Playlists_Demo.gif)

<a href="https://fluvid.com/videos/detail/R68rdCaV2DFMAy3MR" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">Watch video</a><br/>

## Playlist

- Create a playlist in the app using the `YouTube Playlist Link or ID` with an ability to edit the name of the created playlist.


https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/21148072/153730255-f6f17934-8de0-4c4b-af55-e8241e2dd7be.mp4

- Watch all the videos added to a local playlist or from a shared playlist.

> Shared playlists can also be saved locally. Moreover, user will be given the option to merge the videos if there is a playlist that exist locally with the same name of a shared playlist.

![Playlist page](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube/main/README/Playlist_Demo.gif)

<a href="https://fluvid.com/videos/detail/y7X9zT37A_UYKgrAD" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">Watch video</a><br/>

## Themes

- TrimTube offers user the option to switch between `light` and `dark` theme. By default, theme is set using the user's system preferences.

![Themes Demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube/main/README/Themes_Demo.gif)

<a href="https://fluvid.com/videos/detail/7x8vGhXOKYidj71nE" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">Watch video</a><br/>

# 💻 Quick start

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube.git
   ```

2. **Install the packages**

   Install the packages using the command `npm install`

3. **Environment File**

   Create an `.env` file in the root directory of the project. Add the following properties in it:

   ```sh
   YOUTUBE_API_V3=<your YouTube API key> (Required)

   NEXT_PUBLIC_GA_ID=<your Google Analytics tracking ID> (Optional)

   NEXT_PUBLIC_SITE_URL=<URL of the deployed app> (Optional)

   NEXT_PUBLIC_HOTJAR_ID=<your project Hotjar tracking ID> (Optional)

   NEXT_PUBLIC_HOTJAR_VERSION=<your project Hotjar tracking code version> (Optional)
   ```

4. **Start developing.**

   Navigate into your new site’s directory and start it up.

   ```sh
   # Go to project directory
   cd <project-name>

   # start the application
   npm run dev
   ```

5. **Open the source code and start editing!**

   Your site is now running at `http://localhost:3000`!

   Open the `<project-name>` directory in your code editor of choice and edit the contents. Save your changes and the browser will update in real time!

# ⚙️ Available Scripts

---

In the project directory, you can run:

- `npm run dev`

  Runs the app in the development mode.Open `[http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/)` to view it in the browser. The page will reload if you make edits. You will also see any lint or nextjs develop errors in the console.

- `npm run start`

  Runs the app in the production mode.Open `[http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/)` to view it in the browser. The page will reload if you make edits. You will also see any lint or nextjs develop errors in the console.

- `npm run build`

  Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

  The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes. Your app is ready to be deployed!

  See the section about **[deployment](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment)** for more information.

- `npm format`

  Formats the app files like _js, jsx, json, and md_ using Prettier. You can learn more about the format **[here](https://prettier.io/docs/en/install.html)**.

> Note: `pwa-asset-generator` tool is used to generate the below PWA assets. You can learn more about this tool **[here](https://github.com/onderceylan/pwa-asset-generator#features)**.

- `npx pwa-asset-generator ./public/logo.png ./public --icon-only --favicon --opaque false --maskable false --type png`

  Generates favicons and place them in the `public` directory.

- `npx pwa-asset-generator ./public/logo.png ./public/light --splash-only --background lightgray --type jpeg --quality 80`

  Generates splash images needed for apple devices with a light background and place them in the `public/light` directory.

- `npx pwa-asset-generator ./public/logo.png ./public/dark --splash-only --background 'rgba(51,51,51, 1)' --type jpeg --quality 80`

  Generates splash images needed for apple devices with a dark background and place them in the `public/dark` directory.

# **🙌 Contribution**

- Open pull request with improvements.
- If you have any new idea, check the **[feature request](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube/main/blob/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md)** template to create a request.
- If you found any issue or a bug, check the **[bug report](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube/main/blob/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md)** template to create a report.

# **📃 License**

Have a look at the **[license file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamsainikhil/trimtube/main/raw/master/README_images/LICENSE)** for details

# **📧 Contact**

Whether you’d like to discuss about this starter template or simply say “hello”, I’d love to hear from you.

Email: **[contact@iamsainikhil.com](mailto:contact@iamsainikhil.com)**
